📌WHat is Data:- The collection of raw facts or the unprocessed Information is known as data.

📌What is DataBase: A database is a collection of related data which can be stored in an orgaised manner so that it can be easily accessed and Managed.

📌what is the DataBase Management System(DBMS):Database is a collection of interrelated data which helps in the efficient retrieval, insertion, and deletion of data from the database and organizes the data in the form of tables, views, schemas, reports, etc.
For Example: MySQL, Oracle, etc.

 📌DBMS allows users the following tasks:
 .Data Definition: It is used for creation, modification, and removal of definition that defines the organization of data in the database.
 .Data Updation: It is used for the insertion, modification, and deletion of the actual data in the database.
 .Data Retrieval: It is used to retrieve the data from the database which can be used by applications for various purposes.
 .User Administration: It is used for registering and monitoring users, maintain data integrity, enforcing data security, dealing with concurrency control, monitoring performance and recovering information corrupted by unexpected failure.
  
📌Advantages of DBMS over File system: 
.Data redundancy and inconsistency
.Data sharing 
.Data concurrency
.Data searching
.Data integrity
.Data security
.Easy Maintenance
  
📌Disadvantages of DBMS over File system:
 .High initial cost
 .Complexity
 .Cost of conversion in some situation
 .Security issue
 .Slower Response

📌Introduction of Three Tier Archicture of Dbms: 
DBMS 3-tier architecture divides the complete system into three inter-related but independent modules as shown below:
1:Physical Level: At the physical level, the information about the location of database objects in the data store is kept. Various users of DBMS are unaware of the locations of these objects.In simple terms,physical level of a database describes how the data is being stored in secondary storage devices like disks and tapes and also gives insights on additional storage details.
2:Conceptual Level: At conceptual level, data is represented in the form of various database tables. For Example, STUDENT database may contain STUDENT and COURSE tables which will be visible to users but users are unaware of their storage.Also referred as logical schema,it describes what kind of data is to be stored in the database.
3:External Level:  An external level specifies a view of the data in terms of conceptual level tables.  Each external level view is used to cater to the needs of a particular category of users. For Example, FACULTY of a university is interested in looking course details of students, STUDENTS are interested in looking at all details related to academics, accounts, courses and hostel details as well. So, different views can be generated for different users. The main focus of external level is data abstraction.

📌Data Independence
Data independence means a change of data at one level should not affect another level. Two types of data independence are present in this architecture:

.Physical Data Independence: Any change in the physical location of tables and indexes should not affect the conceptual level or external view of data. This data independence is easy to achieve and implemented by most of the DBMS.
.Conceptual Data Independence: The data at conceptual level schema and external level schema must be independent. This means a change in conceptual schema should not affect external schema. e.g.; Adding or deleting attributes of a table should not affect the user’s view of the table. But this type of independence is difficult to achieve as compared to physical data independence because the changes in conceptual schema are reflected in the user’s view.

📌Phases of database design
Database designing for a real-world application starts from capturing the requirements to physical implementation using DBMS software which consists of following steps shown below:    

📌phases-of-database

.Conceptual Design: The requirements of database are captured using high level conceptual data model. For Example, the ER model is used for the conceptual design of the database.

.Logical Design: Logical Design represents data in the form of relational model. ER diagram produced in the conceptual design phase is used to convert the data into the Relational Model.

.Physical Design: In physical design, data in relational model is implemented using commercial DBMS like Oracle, DB2.

