What is RDBMS:
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.
All modern database management systems like SQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, ORACLE, My-SQL, and Microsoft Access are based on RDBMS.
It is called Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) because it is based on the relational model introduced by E.F. Codd.

What is table/Relation?
Everything in a relational database is stored in the form of relations. The RDBMS database uses tables to store data. A table is a collection of related data entries and contains rows and columns to store data. Each table represents some real-world objects such as person, place, or event about which information is collected.

What is a row?
A row of a table is also called a record or tuple. It contains the specific information of each entry in the table. It is a horizontal entity in the table. 

What is a column/attribute?
A column is a vertical entity in the table which contains all information associated with a specific field in a table.

What is data item/Cells?
The smallest unit of data in the table is the individual data item. It is stored at the intersection of tuples and attributes.

What is Degree?
The total number of attributes that comprise a relation is known as the degree of the table.

What is Cardinality?
The total number of tuples at any one time in a relation is known as the table's cardinality. The relation whose cardinality is 0 is called an empty table.

What is Domain?
The domain refers to the possible values each attribute can contain. It can be specified using standard data types such as integers, floating numbers, etc.

NULL Values
The NULL value of the table specifies that the field has been left blank during record creation. It is different from the value filled with zero or a field that contains space.

What is Data Integrity?
There are the following categories of data integrity exist with each RDBMS:
Entity integrity: It specifies that there should be no duplicate rows in a table.
Domain integrity: It enforces valid entries for a given column by restricting the type, the format, or the range of values.
Referential integrity: specifies that rows cannot be deleted, which are used by other records.
User-defined integrity: It enforces some specific business rules defined by users. These rules are different from the entity, domain, or referential integrity.
